There are distinct differences between low-context and high-context cultures.
In low-context cultures, such as Germany or the US, trust is built primarily through task completion.
Communication is direct, explicit, and transparent.
In high-context cultures such as Japan or Brazil, trust is built through relationship-oriented social connection.
Communication is nuanced and layered to preserve social harmony.
Attempting assumption is to treat all cultures the same, believing that direct honesty is universally appreciated.
The better cue is to observe whether a culture prioritizes task completion or social connection.
By showing these side by side, the correction is clear.
Adapting communication style to the specific cultural context prevents strategic failure.
Recognizing this distinction is a strong strategy for global leadership.